# Tabs: Streamlining Paper Note Organization and Task Management

## About
Tabs is a mobile application that aims to streamline the process of integrating hand-taken
notes into the cloud. Tabs achieves this by leveraging the power of machine learning and use 
of cloud storage solutions. 

For more information please refer to our [project report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZNyd0SyXUW9y9Yw4eIKm6GrkFeYUbCFS/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109097623349778516507&rtpof=true&sd=true). <br>
For a project plan please refer to our 
[Trello board](https://trello.com/w/workspace05615787/home).

### Features

- Handwriting recognition using [Textract](https://aws.amazon.com/textract/)
- Automatic uploading of scanned documents.
- Automatic calendar entry for tasks. 

### Supported Platforms

Currently, Tabs has only been tested with Android mobile devices. IOS devices may work however
they have not been verified and building for IOS targets is left as a task for the user. 

### Supported Services

- Microsoft suite (Onedrive, Calender)

## Releases

Prebuilt android `.apks` can be found in the project repository under 
[Releases](https://github.com/uoa-compsci399-s2-2023/capstone-project-team-9/releases). It is recommended you 
download and install the `-preview.apk`. 

If you wish to use a pre-release version, you can 
download the respective `.apk` from the artifacts generated by 
[CI](https://github.com/uoa-compsci399-s2-2023/app_core/actions). <br>
Note: not all branches will
have artifacts, if the branch you wish to use does not have an `.apk` available please build it
yourself using the instructions under the [Getting started](#getting-started) header.

## Getting Started

This guide assumes you have basic knowledge about software development, git and your 
operating system. 

### Prerequisites 

- Expo account.
- Mobile device connected to the internet.
- Android studio (and Android SDK v33).
- Node

### Setup

Note: you must be part of the `team-9` organisation on Expo. If you are not, please email any 
of the group members and they will be able to invite you. Expo does not provide a invite link
system. 

1) Clone the project repository using `git@github.com:uoa-compsci399-s2-2023/app_core.git`
2) Open the project with your IDE of choice (Webstorm and VS Code have been confirmed to work).
3) Install the required node packages using `npm install`
4) Login to your Expo account using `expo login`

### Using a Simulator/Emulator

Use of a simulator is not supported due to the fact that Expo's camera component requires a 
real camera. 

### Building

This guide only teaches you how to set up and build the app for Android. Setup and building for
IOS is left as an exercise for the reader. 

The predefined scripts build the App locally rather than using Expo's CI due to the fact that
Expo only provides 30 free build per month. 

**Important: you are only able to build `.apk`s on a device that is running Mac-OS or Linux. This 
is a limitation of Expo. You are still able to try the app and develop on windows using the steps
listed under [developing](#developing). You can also build the app using Docker or by running 
the GitHub actions CI script locally however this is left as an exercise for the reader.** 

1) On a compatible device run  `npm run build-android-{build type}` where `{build type}` is one of the [build types](#build-types) defined below.
2) Once building has finished, your `.apk` can be found in the `./bin/` folder. 
3) Install the `.apk` onto your desired device.

### Developing

When developing the App it's usually helpful to have logs, live reloading, debugging etc. Expo
allows us to have all these features and more through the use of the Expo Go App. The Expo Go 
App is available on both Android and IOS and our app has been confirmed to work with both. 

Note: 
- If you wish to use the IOS version of Expo Go keep in mind that there will be 
inconsistencies with the Android version of Expo Go and the built `.apk`. 
- Using Expo Go on a public or shared wifi may also not work. (eg: We were not able to get expo go working on UOA wifi)

#### Expo Go

1) Download Expo Go from your devices app store.
2) Login to your Expo account
3) Run `expo start --dev-client` to start the development server. Leave this running in the background. 
4) Scan the QR code that shows up. 
5) Have fun!

#### Building a dev client (Alternative)

It is also possible to build the dev client your self. This guide only supports building the
dev client for Android.

1) Run `npm run build-android-dev-client`
2) Once building has finished, your `.apk` can be found in the `./bin/` folder.
3) Install the `.apk` onto your desired device.
4) Run `expo start --dev-client` to start the development server. Leave this running in the background.
5) Scan the QR code that shows up.
6) Have fun!

### Build types

| Build      | Description                                                                                                                                                                      |
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `dev`      | Build a development version of the App. This version will include debug symbols and any development code if present.                                                             |
| `preview`  | Build a preview version of the App. This version will be a release candidate build without development code and debug symbols. It will also be built with optimisations enabled. |


## Technologies

For justifications on technology choice, please refer to the design section found in the [project report]().

### Languages

- Javascript

### Libraries and Frameworks

- React Native `0.72.3`
- React (included with react native) `18.2.0`
- Expo `49.0.5`
- Node `18.17.0`

### Services

- AWS Textract

For a list of node packages used please refer to the 
[`package.json`](https://github.com/uoa-compsci399-s2-2023/app_core/blob/main/package.json) 
file found in project repository. Due to the number of packages how often these change it is 
not viable to list all of them here. 

## Examples

[Video demo]() of Tabs in action.

## Future Plan

Based of our usage testing the following are key features and fixes which we think should be 
implemented in addition to tasks not complete or found in the backlog in the Trello. 

For more detail behind the reasoning and for a report on our usage testing please refer to
our project report.

### Fixes

- Make the UI fully responsive.
- More feedback for user interaction.
- Use vector graphics for logos etc.

### Features

- Multi page scan.
- Save document locally.
- Local document viewer.
- Support for G-Suite and iCloud.

## Acknowledgements

Some code snippets are derived from examples given in the following documentation. 

- https://docs.expo.dev
- https://reactnative.dev